
During the 2020 uprisings, Adam Burch, a city bus driver in Minneapolis, heard that the police were looking for a bus to transport arrested protesters to jail. Burch, a member of the Amalgamated Transit Union (ATU) Local 1005, which represents Minneapolis bus drivers, decided to publicly refuse to participate.

In a Facebook post that immediately went viral, he declared: "I refuse to transport my class and radical youth. An injury to one is an injury to all. The police murdered George Floyd and the protest against is completely justified and should continue until their demands are met."

The following day, ATU’s local union representing Minneapolis bus drivers published its own response: “ATU members face racism daily,” the union said in a letter. “Our members live and work in the neighborhoods where actions like this happen, and where this took place, now watched in horror across the globe. At ATU we have a saying: ‘NOT ONE MORE” when dealing with driver assaults, which in some cases have led to members being murdered while doing their job. We say, ‘NOT ONE MORE’ execution of a black life by the hands of the police.” 

Burch’s refusal was also backed by the union’s international umbrella organization, which [stated](https://www.atu.org/media/releases/atu-george-floyds-words-a-reminder-of-the-racism-hatred-yet-to-be-overcome?fbclid=IwAR1Dq76A3HXy2VPoq1ToVf99n7sZlE0SDjB04EeTHISonLCcPJKzU5J96Do) that ATU members have a right to refuse “the dangerous duty” of transporting protesters “away from these communities where many of these drivers live” as well as the right to refuse transporting police to the demonstrations themselves. “This is a misuse of public transit,” ATU President John Costa said. 

Prohibited by law from initiating a wildcat strike, transit workers, including Burch, launched a group called “[Union Members for #JusticeForGeorgeFloyd](https://www.facebook.com/groups/926629131143248).” As of July 2020, the group’s Facebook group provides a forum for its 8,400 members to take “the struggle for racial justice and economic equality into their unions, at every level.” The group asks its members to sign a [petition](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScpv6V1R2DVjUWulp1NQWP_o34OowQanGc0OCE6FL6PgmRnKA/viewform?fbclid=IwAR11TII7HPNWE-5Ov7C_cUhak144B2_RVHICSKr2UIn9BAha3--Pr_OOl-Y) pledging “to do what we can to ensure our labor is not used to help the Minneapolis Police Department shut down calls for justice.” The petition is available to be signed by all union members, not just bus drivers.