## The Los Angeles Unified School District teachers and their union, United Teachers Los Angeles (UTLA) led a historic strike that ended in January 2019, built on the heels of a wave of militant actions orchestrated by public school teachers.

UTLA’s strike and negotiation was also unique in its decision to center its demands on behalf of their students and their communities. As one commentator described, UTLA members “were swimming against the tide as unions narrowed their focus and tried to stay alive by avoiding risks. The reformers instead wanted their union to aim higher, to build power in the workplace and the larger community.”

Besides traditional demands like classroom size, the teachers extracted concessions like the creation of an immigrant defense fund for their students’ families, many of whom are undocumented and at risk for removal and the creation of more green spaces. They got the Mayor of LA to endorse a statewide initiative to challenge the cap on property taxes enshrined in California’s constitution.

The strike blurred the lines between a solidarity strike, outlawed under the Taft-Hartley Act and since ignored by the labor movement, and a permissible workplace strike. The UTLA’s demands extended beyond a narrow conception of working conditions, and addressed their students and their families’ social conditions. Behind their expanded vision and concrete successes was deep community support cultivated and developed by the educators over time.
For many of the teachers behind the movement, they saw themselves in their students’ parents, and connected over a shared history of Latinx struggles in Los Angeles. As one teacher-member explained, “I see myself in my students in both the literal and metaphorical sense.”

Shared identity and deep organizing created the conditions for an expansive vision of the place of the school in the community and an investment that it was something worth fighting for. The entire community mobilized to lend support to the picket line, and enabled the union leadership to strike a hard bargain. Their efforts gave birth to a new kind of strike.
